Once you've validated everything and know
that for the most part you're focusing on true positives,
remediation of issues can be ranked based on
several factors depending on what makes the most sense for the company.
Some of those factors include: the severity level,
the budget available to fix the issue,
the time and effort it takes to remediate the issue,
cost-benefit analysis on whether the potential loss
the vulnerability can cause is greater than the cost it would take to fix it,
and last but not least, regulatory requirements.
Sometimes not fixing an issue no matter what the severity can land you in legal trouble.
So these are the common factors to keep in mind,
but companies may also choose to add others.
When prioritizing vulnerabilities,
a general rule of thumb is that the higher the severity,
the sooner you'll want to close the gap.
But also anytime there's a regulatory compliance issue such as a law that mandates a fix,
you may want to prioritize that too.
However, this all boils down to cost-benefit analysis.
For example, if a fine for non-compliance to the company is, let's say,
$1,000 and the fix is $100,000,
but you have other mitigating controls in place already,
you might decide to accept the risk of that fine for now and not fix the issue.
On the contrary, if a vulnerability costs,
let's say, $10,000 to fix,
but the potential impact of the gap is a million dollars,
you might want to consider committing to full remediation.
Additional manual testing can also be done during
this phase to ensure you are focusing on true positives.
Just remember, it's an ongoing process.
Prioritizing the findings brings you one step closer to remediation.
During this process, it's good to have a standard framework or service-level agreements,
also termed SLAs, for executing on remediation.
This can help you consistently determine how quickly you should fix certain issues.
You already know, you need to take into consideration different factors,
including severity when you prioritize.
Those factors can also influence your SLAs.
Let's say we are focusing on using severity to drive your SLAs.
You may come up with a standard like this.
You might say low severity issues are optional to fix,
medium severities need to be fixed within 90 days,
high severity within 60 days,
and critical severity within 30 days.
But you might add that, hey,
if something applies to a regulatory issue or environment,
even if it's not critical,
it must be fixed within 30 days.
There are many different combinations to this,
and it depends on the company,
but you must have something to guide this process.
I remember when I manage vulnerability remediation earlier in my career,
the minute I created a standard like this,
I went from barely being able to keep up with fixes each month
to accomplishing full remediation of all issues on a monthly basis.
We even had a record breaking streak and so this makes a huge difference.